# CyBirdwood

As social beings, our interaction with others offers intrinsic contentment and natural happiness. However, with rapid urbanization and technological advancements, human society has only considered its enjoyment, resulting in a severed connection between urban dwellers and wildlife. Notably, conventional human–animal interaction, since the inception of circus performance and zoo entertainment, has always compromised animal welfare for people’s enjoyment, and a fulfilling interaction modality that enhances human enjoyment while considering avian welfare is desired to ensure a balance between human enjoyment and animal well-being. In this pilot study, we propose an interaction design that facilitates nonverbal communication between humans and zoo-captive animals (represented by a cockatoo) in a welfare-friendly manner by integrating animal–computer interaction with information and communication technology. 

<hr/>

To do this, we investigated whether our target animals appropriately respond to external auditory and visual stimuli. Thus, we employ a cockatoo (cockatoos are highly intelligent wild birds with similar characteristics to those of domestic birds) as our experimental animal user, introduce theoretical developments and system designs to facilitate remote interaction and conduct experiments with the cockatoo to investigate whether it reacted, as expected, to the external stimuli in a controlled environment. The experiments with the cockatoo demonstrated the effectiveness of a specific combination of external stimuli in guiding the animal’s behavior. This study represents pilot research involving the theoretical design of a human–bird communication model, the development of an interaction system, the performance of animal-oriented experiments, and the identification of parameters that attract the birds’ attention. Further experiments as well as the implementation of tools will effectively enhance engagements with captive avian species and ensure their welfare while pursuing human enjoyment. 
